SpringBoot
--------------


Web Application / Service (Server) Backend 

All the Things which is running on the web and providing some services.

- Google
- Microsoft

API- Api is the method of the server.

sachin

Request
https://www.google.com/search?q=Scahin

chrome is the client and the Google is the server and the search is an api which is exposed on the internet
and we get an response in the form of html.


client

-Postman   - we get the response in the form of html
-Browser
-Android App 



User
---------
API returns the data in the form of Json or XML.
JSON

id :1
name: Ayush
age : 30


THe search api of github which is exposed on the internet
and returns the JSON OF USERS

https://api.github.com/search/users?q=shashi

https://api.github.com/user/Ayush



Microservices Architecture

- frontend should be running on different machine and backend should be running on different Machine.

but befaore Microservices

Both are runnging on same macine like Serlet and JSP and PHP

Backend Framework for developing backend Application
Nodejs -->Not Multithreaded
SpringBoot
Django

Creating the class and pass the object is called cammand pattern.
Encapsulation
control the data with the help of set Data.


Class -Server : services : API
Abstraction
hidhing thr implementation

API
-Soap
-Rest API

In Get API
There are two types of parameter
- query parameter 
http://localhost:8080/user?q=Ayush

- path parameter
http://localhost:8080/users/1



Maven

- Maven is a build tool which allows us to Develop java application in the easyiest way.

- Dependency-Functionaly that we are incorpating.(peace of code.)
that is present globlelly

Maven-
checks for Maven

mvn --version

.m2/  ---Folder contains all the dependancies which are dowloaded form the remote server. means jar

Maven has Three Types of Repository
-local     ----- local Repoository has dependancies in our System locally.

-central  ----All the peace of code (Dependancies) contains Hosted Globly.

-Remote   ---Repository we are working in the amazon and working on the project and we want a dependency that can,t exposed globlly so we make it remote so it can only access by the employee of Amazon.

- private Access

The maven first check in local repo if the dependancy is present in local system than its return it otherwise it search on Central repo with is present gobally (Downloading from internet).



GitHub deals with code
Maven Deals with Depenencies





 
















